# Event

The `Event` interface represents an event which takes place in the DOM.

An event can be triggered by

* User action e.g. clicking the mouse button or tapping keyboard
* Generated by APIs to represent the progress of any synchronous task
* Triggered programmatically, such as by calling the `HTMLElement.click()` method of an element.
* Defining an event, and then sending it to a specific target using `EventTarget.dispatchEvent()`

`Event` itself contains the properties and methods which are common to all events.

Event handlers are usually connected to various HTML elements using `EventTarget.addEvenListener()`. When properly added, such handlers can also be disconncted if needed using `removeEventListener()`.

One element can have several such handlers.

```ts
interface Event {
    readonly bubbles: boolean;
    cancelBubble: boolean;
    readonly cancelable: boolean;
    readonly composed: boolean;
    readonly currentTarget: EventTarget | null;
    readonly defaultPrevented: boolean;
    readonly eventPhase: number
    readonly isTrusted: boolean;
    readonly EventTarget | null;
    readonly timeStamp: DOMHightResTimeStamp;
    readonly type: string;
    composedPath(): EventTarget[];
    preventDefault(): void;
    stopImmediatePropogation(): void;
    stopPropagation(): void;
    readonly AT_TARGET: number;
    readonly BUBBLING_PHASE: number;
    readonly CAPTURING_PHASE: number;
    reaondly NONE: number;
}
```

## Properties

* `bubbles`: boolean, readonly

Indicate whether the event bubbles up through the DOM or not.

* `cancelBubble`: Boolean

Historical alias to `stopPropagation()`

* `cancelable`: boolean, readonly

Indicate whether the event is cancelable

* `composed`: boolean, readonly

Indicates whether or not the event can bubble across the boundary between the shadow DOM and the regular DOM

* `currentTarget`: Object, readonly

A reference to the currently registered target for the event. This is the object to which the event is currently slated to be sent. This is the element that addEventListener registered.

* `defaultPrevented`: boolean, readonly

Indicates whether or not `event.preventDefault()` has been called on the event.

* `eventPhase`, readonly

* originalTarget, readonly

* target, readonly

A reference to the target to which the event was originally dispatched.

It is different from `currentTarget` when the event handler is called during the bubbling or capturing phase of the event.

This is the element triggered the event. It might not be the element for `addEventListner`.

Its value is the associated `EventTarget`

* `timeStamp`: number, readonly

The time at which the event was created in milliseconds

* `type`: string, readonly

* `readonly isTrusted`: boolean

## Methods

* creanteEvent()
* composedPath()
* preventDefault()

Tells the user agent that if the event does not get explicitly handled, its default action should not be take as it normally would be.

Example

Blocking default click handling:

```js
docuent.querySelector("#id-checkbox")
    .addEventListener("click", function(event) {
        event.preventDefault();
    })
```

* `stopImmediatePropagation()`
* `stopPropagation()`
